All right so in the last video we looked at how to create a grid and how to deal with the grid template
columns property.
Now there's also a grid template Rose property.
Now we're going to we're going to look at that we're also going to talk about the implicit grid or implicit
rows.
So let's create a new file here called Zero to underscore grid underscore Rose dot H PML and I'm going
to actually copy what we have in the grid columns file because there's gonna be some some things that
are similar so paste that in and we'll change the title here and let's get rid of everything in this
grid class except for display grid.
I want to keep the items styling.
Get rid of Main.
We don't want that.
We don't want this main down here.
I just wanted to show you how easy it was to create a basic main main area and sidebar but we're gonna
keep this here and let's open this with live server.
All right.
So remember with Flex blocks we have a row and a column.
We can set flex direction to either row or column with the grid we have.
We also have rows and columns.
So I'm going to go ahead and set grid dash template rows and let's set this to we'll do one at far too
far.
Three F5.
OK so I'm going to save this and let's see what we get here.
So as you can see there they're vertical OK so it's not we're not adding columns here so it's not going
horizontally.
And the first one is one far.
Second is to a fire.
Third is three IFR.
OK.
If I were to add another one here and go for I fire the next one will be for fire.
But notice the ones that are remaining where we don't add a specific value for they're just going to
stay the same they're all going to look like this.
This is actually called the implicit grid are implicit rows because we didn't we didn't manually set
them.
In fact I'm going to take this one off and there's actually another property we can use if we want to
set these to something different and that's grid auto rows.
OK.
So if we say grid dash auto dash rows we can set this to let's say we want the rest of them to be three
FIA as well just like the last one that we put here.
So we can say three IFR and save.
And now the rest of them are all three IFR.
All right.
Now unlike flex blocks the grid is multi-dimensional so we can we can use grid template rows along with
grid template columns.
So just to show you that let's say grid dash template dash columns and let's say we want to do let's
do repeat we'll just have to.
So we'll say repeat 2 and let's do one.
FDR did they spell wrong here
OK so we'll save that.
And now you can see that we have our columns which is just to one F.
So the columns are even.
But then we're also we also have our rows which are one at far too far and three or far and this is
this will still be in effect.
So if I were to add extras down here and save you'll see that those will all be three f.
All right.
And if I wanted three rows or three columns I could do that as well.
So you can really create the layout that you want and you can span items across multiple rows and columns
and I'm going to show you how to do that as well.
All right.
But that is grid template rows.
So that's it.
I'll see you in the next video.